Add VM based install, adapt retail to SUMA5 (#3046)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/retail/pages/dedicated-with-formulas-43.adoc

[[dedicated-with-formulas]]

> = Set Up the {productname} {smr} Environment with dedicated network for terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Set Up the {productname} {smr} Environment with Dedicated Network for Terminal
```

To set up the {productname} {smr} environment, you will need to have already installed and configured:

* {productname} {smr} Server
* one or more {productname} {smr} branch server proxies
* one or more POS images built

== Assumptions

[IMPORTANT]
====

> This guide works only with non-containerized {productname} {smr} branch proxy 4.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide works only with non-containerized {productname} {smr} branch proxy 4.3.
```

====

In this example we consider architecture with dedicated network for POS terminals where branch server provides all required services including DHCP and DNS.

> For dedicated network we assume 192.168.86.0/24 network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For dedicated network we assume [literal]``192.168.86.0/24`` network.
```

> In this example we provide [systemitem]``salt`` and [systemitem]``ftp`` CNAMEs for {saltboot} service discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example we provide [systemitem]``{salt}`` and [systemitem]``ftp`` CNAMEs for {saltboot} service discovery.
```

> We assume to have one regular branch server with salt minion id [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com``, which is equal to the branch server fully qualified domain name, and branch id [systemitem]``B0001``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We assume to have one regular branch server with {salt} minion id [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com``, which is equal to the branch server fully qualified domain name, and branch id [systemitem]``B0001``.
```

As a terminal we assume to have one terminal with hardware manufacturer [systemitem]``TerminalOEM`` and model [systemitem]``T1000``.

For POS image we assume to have one with name [systemitem]``POS_Image_JeOS7``.

> This example covers two configuration methods with both of them achieving same result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example covers two configuration methods. 
Both of the methods achieve the same result.
```

> == Create required system groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create Required System Groups
```

> Unlike when using provided tools, manually setting up formulas requires manual creation of needed system groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manually setting up formulas requires manual creation of the needed system groups, unlike when the using provided tools.
```

> Follow guide xref:reference:systems/system-groups.adoc[] to create the system groups:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the system groups, see xref:reference:systems/system-groups.adoc[].

You will need the following groups:
```

- [systemitem]``TERMINALS``
- [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000``
- [systemitem]``B0001``

> First group is generic optional group for collecting all POS terminals. Second group is hardware type group for our POS terminal. Third group is mandatory branch group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first group is generic optional group for collecting all POS terminals. 
The second group is hardware type group for our POS terminal. 
The third group is mandatory branch group.
```

For more information about {saltboot} groups, see xref:retail:retail-install-setup.adoc[].

> == Assign and configure branch server formulas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Assign and Configure Branch Server Formulas
```

> We assign following formulas to the branch server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We assign the following formulas to the branch server:
```

- Branch Network
- Dhcpd
- Bind
- Pxe
- Tftpd

> .Procedure: Assign formulas to the branch server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Assign Formulas to the Branch Server
```

. In the [guimenu]``Records`` section, subsection [guimenu]``NS``, use these parameters to set up an NS record for Zone 1:
* In the input box, use the branch server [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com.``
. In the [guimenu]``Records`` section, subsection [guimenu]``CNAME``, use these parameters to set up CNAME records for Zone 1:
* In the [guimenu]``Key`` field, enter [systemitem]``salt``, and in the [guimenu]``Value`` field, type the branch server [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com.``
* Click btn:[Add item] to add another entry.
* In the [guimenu]``Key`` field, enter [systemitem]``ftp``, and in the [guimenu]``Value`` field, type the branch server [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com.``
. Set up Zone 2 using the same parameters as for Zone 1, but ensure you use the reverse details:
* The same SOA section as Zone 1.
* Empty A and CNAME records.
*  Additionally, configure in Zone 2:
** Set [guimenu]``Generate Reverse`` to the network IP address [systemitem]``192.168.86.0/24``
** Set [guimenu]``For Zones`` to the domain name of your branch network [systemitem]``branch1.mystore.com``
. Click btn:[Save Formula] to save your configuration.
. Apply the highstate.

> == Setup partitioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Setup Partitioning
```

Partitioning is specific to the hardware type and configured using [systemitem]``Saltboot`` formula.

> .Procedure: Assign {saltboot} formula to hardware type group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Assign {saltboot} Formula to Hardware Type Group
```

. Navigate to menu:Systems[System Groups]
. Select group [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000``, which is our hardware type group
. Select the [guimenu]``Formulas`` tab once in group details
. You should see list of formulas in [guimenu]``Configuration`` sub-tab
. In displayed list select [systemitem]``Saltboot``
. Save assigned formulas by clicking btn:[Save] in top right corner

> .Procedure: Configure {saltboot} formula

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure: Configure {saltboot} Formula
```

. Select {saltboot} formula from [systemitem]``HWType:TerminalOEM-T1000`` group formula list
. Set [systemitem]``Disk Symbolic ID`` to [systemitem]``Disk1``
. Set [systemitem]``Device Type`` to [systemitem]``DISK``
. Set [systemitem]``Disk Device`` to [systemitem]``*``
. Set [systemitem]``Partition table type`` to [systemitem]``gpt``
. Click btn:[+] to add a partition
* Set [systemitem]``Partition Symbolic ID`` to [systemitem]``p1``
* Set [systemitem]``Partition Size (MiB)`` to [systemitem]``512``
* Set [systemitem]``Device Mount Point`` to [systemitem]``/boot/efi``
* Set [systemitem]``Filesystem Format`` to [systemitem]``vfat``
* Set [systemitem]``Partition Flags`` to [systemitem]``boot``
. Click btn:[+] to add a partition
* Set [systemitem]``Partition Symbolic ID`` to [systemitem]``p2``
* Set [systemitem]``Device Mount Point`` to [systemitem]``/``
* Set [systemitem]``OS Image to Deploy`` to [systemitem]``POS_Image_JeOS7``
. Save the formula

After all procedures are done, apply highstate on the branch server.

> == Synchronize images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Synchronize Images
```
